DOCS-1811: Add air quality fleet management tutorial (#2833)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/tutorials/control/air-quality-fleet.md

## Decide how you will organize your fleet

Before you start connecting your devices to the Viam app, you'll need to decide how you want to group your devices.

In the Viam app, {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="machine" text="machines" >}} are grouped into _locations_, and locations are grouped into _organizations_.
Each location can represent either a physical location or some other conceptual grouping.
An organization is the highest level grouping, and often contains all the locations (and machines) of an entire company.
These groupings allow you to manage permissions; you can grant a user access to an individual machine, to all the machines in a location, or to everything in an entire organization.
You choose how to group your machines.

{{<imgproc class="aligncenter" src="/fleet/fleet.svg" declaredimensions=true alt="Tree diagram with three locations that belong to one organization. One location contains sub-location A containing two machines and sub-location B containing one machine. Each of the two other locations contains machines directly with no sub-locations." >}}

For more information, see [Fleet Management](/fleet/).

### Example

> Imagine you create a PM2.5 monitoring company called Pollution Monitoring Made Simple.

Reviewer: Silly but I had to look up PM2.5, expected?

Author: Ah yes, here in Wildfiresville sometimes I forget :D I suppose we don't have to be so specific here! I'm keeping "PM2.5" in some alt text and in the dashboard because that's what the actual readings are, but will make it more conceptual here.
```suggestion
Imagine you create an air quality monitoring company called Pollution Monitoring Made Simple.
```

1. Now, create a separate location for RobotsRUs:

   On the left side of the **FLEET** page, find the **New location** interface.
   Type in `RobotsRUs` and click **Add**.

1. Add sub-locations to the RobotsRUs location to group the machines at each of their offices:

   Add a new location called `Oregon Office` using the same **New location** interface.
   Then, find the **New parent location** dropdown on the Oregon Office page.
   Select **RobotsRUs** and click **Change**.

   Repeat to add the New York office: Add a new location called `New York Office`, then change its parent location to **RobotsRUs**.

   {{<imgproc class="aligncenter" src="/tutorials/air-quality-fleet/locations-done.png" resize="x900" declaredimensions=true alt="The New York Office fleet page. The left Locations navigation panel lists Antonia's Home and RobotsRUs, with New York Office and Oregon Office nested inside RobotsRUs." >}}

   In the next section, you'll add machines to the locations.

## Connect your machines to the Viam app

With your organizational structure in place, let's add some machines:

> 1. Connect the single-board computer you'll be shipping to Antonia to power.

Reviewer: This is the one part of the tutorial I got confused about. Saying "you'll be shipping" felt too imaginative. Given someone following this tutorial is of course not doing that.

Author: What do you suggest? In a later step in this section, we say to add it to Antonia's location.

Wouldn't they possibly actually be doing that? Or would they definitely not be, because someone who is actually shipping machines would use provisioning?

Author: Okay applying Naomi's suggestion!

> 1. Connect the single-board computer you'll be shipping to Antonia to power.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Connect your first single-board computer to power.
   For this tutorial, we'll test this as the machine for our first customer, Antonia.
```

   SSH to your board and run the following command:

   ```sh{class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
   ls /dev/serial/by-id
   ```

   This should output a list of one or more USB devices attached to your board, for example `usb-1a86_USB_Serial-if00-port0`.
   If the air quality sensor is the only device plugged into your board, you can be confident that the only device listed is the correct one.
   If you have multiple devices plugged into different USB ports, you may need to choose one path and test it, or unplug something, to figure out which path to use.

   Now that you have found the identifier, put the full path to the device into your config, for example:

   ```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
   {
     "usb_interface": "/dev/serial/by-id/usb-1a86_USB_Serial-if00-port0"
   }
   ```

7. Save the config.
   Your machine config should now resemble the following:

   {{<imgproc src="/tutorials/air-quality-fleet/configured-sensor.png" resize="x1100" declaredimensions=true alt="Configure tab showing PM sensor and the sensor module configured." style="max-width:600px" >}}

#### Configure data capture and sync

> You have configured the sensor so the board can communicate with it, but sensor data is not yet being saved anywhere.
> Enable [data capture](/data/capture/) and [cloud sync](/data/cloud-sync/) so that data from your air quality sensor will be first stored on the machine and then pushed up to the cloud where you can access all the data from your sensors remotely.
> You'll be able to access data from all sensors in all locations, and when you're ready, you can give customers [access](/fleet/rbac/) to the data from the sensors in their locations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You have now configured the sensor so the board can communicate with it.
You could at this point build a dashboard that shows the sensor's current readings.
To allow you to show past data and make such a dashboard more useful, you need to store the data from your sensor. 
In the Viam Platform you can use the data management service to capture and store your sensor data and sync it with the cloud.
Once you configure more than one sensor, you'll be able to access data from all sensors in all locations, and when you're ready, you can give customers [access](/fleet/rbac/) to the data from the sensors in their locations.
```
This is more what I'm thinking. Adding why you'd want to capture this data, I.e. To be able to show historic data. 

This is example wording, feel free to change

Author: I'd rather not talk about a dashboard they could build that is different from the one they are going to build, especially since the dashboard they are going to build here doesn't really display historical data as such (though it technically uses some historical data for averages and for sensors that aren't currently live).

The main reason the data service is useful here is that it lets them tag data and then get data filtering by tag, location, and machine, so the same dashboard code scales with their fleet and works for any location versus needing to code in getting a robot client and `get sensor FromRobot` for every machine. I feel that the last sentence says this. Maybe this does a better job of emphasizing it?
```suggestion
You have configured the sensor so the board can communicate with it, but sensor data is not yet being saved anywhere.
In this section you'll configure [data capture](/data/capture/) and [cloud sync](/data/cloud-sync/) so that data from your air quality sensor will be stored on the machine and then synced to the cloud where you can access it remotely.
Once you configure all your sensing machines, you'll be able to access data from all sensors in all locations from one central hub, and when you're ready, you can give customers [access](/fleet/rbac/) to the data from the sensors in their locations.
```

Reviewer 2: I think there is a logical issue here. If the business doesn't care about historical data there is no real reason to use data management. 
You pay for data upload, management, and egress... So a business would only do that if they care about keeping the data. 

The code here could be changed fairly simply to 
Connect with your api key, and I think you could even then list all the organisations and locations you have access to and thus get all the machines and for each get the sensor and the current reading. You could even call this every few seconds and then average over the past 5. So why would you not do that? What's bad about creating many robot clients to access the data?

I realize offline sensors would then cause an issue but I probably also don't want to open a dashboard and see live-looking data that's from two weeks ago.

You don't need to change the dashboard. Just pointing out that they can see and access historical data and add that to their dashboard is fine.

You touch on it at the very end as you say. I want that to be the start of the section. I think "why would you add data management" needs to be clear right away, ideally in the first one or two sentences rather than at the very end.

Author: Mm I see--you're right about the cost. This is interesting.

RE the bad thing about creating robot clients: You could use the Python SDK to establish an appclient with access to all machines in all locations in the org, and use that to get the ids of all machines in each location, and then establish robotclients (with the typescript SDK?) for each machine, but you wouldn't be able to loop through just the air sensor machines because you wouldn't know which machines were air sensor machines, unless your entire org had no other machines in it, right? And, if any of those machines collected non-air-quality data, that data would also be included right? Maybe you could name all air sensor machines "air-sensor-bend1," "air-sensor-bend2," "air-sensor-nyc1," and similarly have a consistent naming scheme for the air quality sensors so you'd know which sensor to get readings from, but it'd be hacky. So the nice thing about using the data service is that you can efficiently tag all the data and get exactly the data you want, with more flexibility.
Is there another way to do this without using data management that I haven't thought of? Also wouldn't this currently require using the Python SDK in addition to the TS SDK because appclient is currently supported only in Python?

Reviewer: Is the question here whether this tutorial gains anything from historical data/data capturing?

Reviewer 2: The question is would someone realistically choose to use the data management service and capture and sync data with it just so they can easily access all machines with one api call if the data they are accessing is current data. I think the answer to that is no.

I think people would only use the data management service if they needed the historical data. For something. And I think we need to start this section by providing the reason why you'd add the data management service (which costs money).

If its easy then yes please update the dashboard to show the last hour, day, 7 days or something like that. That would be best. If that's not easy I think it's ok to just say you want that data for future analysis and when you build the dashboard say "because we have access to all historical data from the sensor, we could also..."

Reviewer 2: There are lots of tools that aren't grafana that they could use. I think it's not important how they access and visualise the data on the dashboard. It's more that we need to tell the story that they want to keep this data for something and that's why they use the data management service. 

I think adding grafana to this tutorial may be a stretch but you could add a link to it in the next steps section saying that you could do nice visualisations with grafana as well since you have all the data

Reviewer 2: Essentially the 
"Current pollution data is great but you and your customers may also want to keep track of data to be able to look at it over time." and then say that you can do that with the data management service.

Author: It would be non-trivial for me to make the code work that way, especially without it loading very slowly, and though I could put in hard-coded HTML to take new screenshots, it'd take a while to actually test the code properly since I don't currently have a week of multi-machine data, so I'd rather merge with the dashboard as-is. Should I make a ticket to change the code in the future or is that overkill?

I do have a note about Grafana after the data test section, and I also have a Grafana card in the next steps section. Actually right now I'm adding a provisioning card to next steps too, but yes Grafana is mentioned.

```suggestion
You have configured the sensor so the board can communicate with it, but sensor data is not yet being saved anywhere.
Enable [data capture](/data/capture/) and [cloud sync](/data/cloud-sync/) so that data from your air quality sensor will first be stored on the machine and then synced to the cloud where you can access historical sensor data and see trends over time.
Once you configure the rest of your sensing machines, you'll be able to remotely access data from all sensors in all locations, and when you're ready, you can give customers [access](/fleet/rbac/) to the data from the sensors in their locations.
```

Reviewer 2: Then let's keep as is with the copy change you just suggested. Thanks!

1.  Make sure you have the latest version of [Node.JS](https://nodejs.org/en) installed on your computer.
1.  Install the Viam TypeScript SDK by running the following command in your terminal:

    ```sh {class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
    npm install --save @viamrobotics/sdk
    ```

1.  Create a directory on your laptop or desktop for your project.
    Name it <file>aqi-dashboard</file>.

1.  Create a file in your <file>aqi-dashboard</file> folder and name it <file>package.json</file>.
    The <file>package.json</file> file holds necessary metadata about your project.
    Paste the following contents into it:

    ```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
    {
      "name": "air-quality-dashboard",
      "description": "A dashboard for visualizing data from air quality sensors.",
      "scripts": {
        "start": "esbuild ./main.ts --bundle --outfile=static/main.js --servedir=static --format=esm",
        "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
      },

>       "author": "Viam Docs Team",

Reviewer: Do we want to say anything about changing the author?

Author: Hmm I suppose it doesn't matter too much? I can't add a comment in the JSON of course but I can add a sentence just below saying change it to your name.

      "license": "ISC",
      "devDependencies": {
        "esbuild": "*"
      },
      "dependencies": {
        "@viamrobotics/sdk": "^0.13.0",
        "bson": "^6.6.0"
      }
    }
    ```

{{% alert title="Fun fact" color="info" %}}
The `--format=esm` flag in the `"start"` script is important because the ECMAScript module format is necessary to support the BSON dependency this project uses for data query formatting.
If you don't know what the proceeding sentence means, don't worry about it; just copy-paste the JSON above and it'll work.
{{% /alert %}}

### Authenticate your code to your Viam app location

Your TypeScript code requires an API key to establish a connection to your machines.

> You can set up credentials to access data from all the sensor machines in your organization, or from just one location, so in our example you could provide Antonia with an API key to see the data from her location, and provide RobotsRUs with a different API key to access the data from their RobotsRUs location.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can set up credentials to access data from all the sensor machines in your organization, or from just one location, so in our example you could create a dashboard for Antonia with an API key to see the data from her location, and provide RobotsRUs with a different API key to access the data from their RobotsRUs location.

You can then either deploy these dashboard on a webserver you manage or add a webserver on one machine per customer that hosts the dashboard for the respective customer so that they can access their data on their local network.
We leave this step to the reader.
```
Maybe something like this helps?

Author: Sounds good to me if it addresses it adequately @nataliajacobowitz ?

Author: I'm reorganizing the following sentence to fit with this suggestion so I'm just going to go ahead and apply.

> You can set up credentials to access data from all the sensor machines in your organization, or from just one location, so in our example you could provide Antonia with an API key to see the data from her location, and provide RobotsRUs with a different API key to access the data from their RobotsRUs location.

Reviewer: Reflecting a bit more. This tutorial doesn't address whether I ever grant Antonia or RobotsRUs access to their respective location in the app. I guess what you are saying here is we would just give them access to the hosted webpage? Also if they are non technical what does Antonia do with the provided API key?

Author: Yeah you're right--I wasn't sure exactly how to present this. Since we aren't covering provisioning (except with a vague note), this isn't exactly what someone would probably do in prod anyway; it's somewhere in between personal use and prod. They could send the code repo link to Antonia, and the API key, and have her replace the strings with the key and spin up the website herself. Or, they could put her location API key in and host the website somewhere for her but this tutorial doesn't cover hosting at all. Or maybe they could change the website to have a login screen where her login maps to a set of API keys stored on the server side where they're hosting, and they never actually give her the API key? I don't know much about hosting or auth so idk if that would make any sense.

Author: But basically I was hoping that's up to the reader if they're actually doing something beyond a hobby project with this.

1.  Now you need to get the API key and the {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="organization" text="organization" >}} and {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="location" text="location" >}} IDs to replace the placeholder strings in the code you just pasted.

    In the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com), navigate to the location page for the location containing your air quality machines.

    {{<imgproc src="/tutorials/air-quality-fleet/loc-secret-button.png" resize="x900" declaredimensions=true alt="The location secret with a Copy button next to it." style="max-width:650px" >}}

    Copy the **Location ID** and paste it into your code in place of `<LOCATION ID>`, so that that line resembles `const orgID: string = "abcde12345"`.

1.  Use the dropdown menu in the upper-right corner of the page to navigate to your organization settings page.
    Copy the **Organization ID** found under **Details** near the top of the page.
    Paste it in place of `<ORGANIZATION ID>` in your code.

1.  Under the **API Keys** heading, click **Generate Key**.

1.  Name your key something such as `air-sensors-key`.

1.  Select **Resource** and choose the location you have all your air quality sensing machines in.

> 1.  Set the **Role** to **Owner**, then click **Generate key**.

Reviewer 2: Oh it kind of sucks that you can't give them just read access. Interesting

Reviewer 2: @nataliajacobowitz lets chat about this offline. (Not a merge blocker though)

     let avgPM: number = await getLastFewAv(thedata, mach._id);
     // Color-code the dashboard based on air quality category
     let level: string = "blue";
     switch (true) {
       case avgPM < 12.1: {
         level = "good";
         break;
       }
       case avgPM < 35.5: {
         level = "moderate";
         break;
       }
       case avgPM < 55.5: {
         level = "unhealthy-sensitive";
         break;
       }
       case avgPM < 150.5: {
         level = "unhealthy";
         break;
       }
       case avgPM < 250.5: {
         level = "very-unhealthy";
         break;
       }
       case avgPM >= 250.5: {
         level = "hazardous";
         break;
       }
     }
     // Create the HTML output for this machine
     insideDiv.className = "inner-div " + level;
     insideDiv.innerHTML =
       "<p>" +
       mach._id +
       ": " +
       avgPM.toFixed(2).toString() +
       " &mu;g/m<sup>3</sup></p>";
     htmlblock.appendChild(insideDiv);
   }

   // Output a block of HTML with color-coded boxes for each machine
   return document.getElementById("insert-readings").replaceWith(htmlblock);
   ```

> The full code is available for reference [on GitHub](https://github.com/viam-labs/air-quality-fleet/blob/main/main.ts).

Author: ```suggestion
The full code is available for reference on [GitHub](https://github.com/viam-labs/air-quality-fleet/blob/main/main.ts).
```

---
title: "Monitor Air Quality with a Fleet of Sensors"
linkTitle: "Air Quality Fleet"
type: "docs"
description: "Use a fleet of machines with air quality sensors to monitor PM 2.5 levels in different indoor and outdoor locations."
images: ["/tutorials/air-quality-fleet/lower-aqi.png"]
imageAlt: "A web dashboard showing PM2.5 readings from two air quality sensors."
tags: ["tutorial"]
authors: ["Jessamy Taylor"]
languages: ["typescript"]
viamresources: ["sensor", "data_manager"]
level: "Intermediate"
date: "2024-04-23"
# updated: ""  # When the tutorial was last entirely checked
cost: 200
---

As wildfire smoke, car exhaust, and cooking oils pollute our air, we can become more aware of the pollution levels in the spaces we spend time by collecting data.

> Then, when we take steps to mitigate the problem, the data allows us track whether our interventions are effective.

Author: Was hoping to provide some reason as to why someone would want to collect this data with a fleet of sensing devices, but I guess since that's not the focus of the tutorial it doesn't matter? Removing

> Then, when we take steps to mitigate the problem, the data allows us track whether our interventions are effective.

Reviewer 2: As you make the rest of the changes see if you can include that reasoning as part of the story. I’m not opposed to starting with it but it currently feels unnecessary and a bit awkward.

In this tutorial you will use a fleet of devices to collect data from different places and sync it all to a custom viewing dashboard.
By completing this project, you will learn to:

- Configure a fleet of identical machines
- Manage a fleet of dispersed devices remotely
- Collect and sync data from multiple machines
- Use the Viam TypeScript SDK to query sensor data and create a custom dashboard

<div class="aligncenter">
  {{<imgproc src="/tutorials/air-quality-fleet/three-sensor-dash.png" resize="x900" declaredimensions=true alt="Air quality dashboard with PM2.5 readings from three different sensor machines displayed." style="max-width:400px" >}}
</div>

## Requirements

You can complete this tutorial using any number of air quality sensing machines.

> Your {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="machine" text="machines" >}} can be in different {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="location" text="locations" >}} but you should keep them all in one {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="organization" text="organization" >}} for simplicity and so that you can follow along with this tutorial more easily.

Author: Okay I'm adding the example. For the alert, should I actually change the tutorial to cover provisioning?? With fragments, we're not actually having them configure each machine fully manually, but yes they are manually adding the fragment.

> Your {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="machine" text="machines" >}} can be in different {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="location" text="locations" >}} but you should keep them all in one {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="organization" text="organization" >}} for simplicity and so that you can follow along with this tutorial more easily.

Reviewer 2: No you don't have to use provisioning here but I think mentioning it so people don't think this is the best the platform can do is valid

- The [Viam TypeScript SDK](https://ts.viam.dev/)

## Set up your hardware

1. For each sensing machine, connect the PM sensor to a USB port on the machine's SBC.
2. Enable serial communication on each SBC.
   For example, if you are using a Raspberry Pi, SSH to it and [enable serial communication in `raspi-config`](/get-started/installation/prepare/rpi-setup/#enable-communication-protocols).

3. Position your sensing machines in strategic locations, and connect them to power.
   Here are some ideas for where to place sensing machines:

   - At home:
     - In an outdoor location protected from weather, such as under the eaves of your home
     - In the kitchen, where cooking can produce pollutants
     - Anywhere you spend lots of time indoors and want to measure exposure to pollutants
   - At work:
     - At your desk to check your exposure throughout the day
     - Near a door or window to see whether pollutants are leaking in

## Configure your air quality sensors

You need to [configure](/build/configure/) your hardware so that each of your machines can communicate with its attached air quality [sensor](/components/sensor/).

> No matter how many sensing machines you use, you can configure them all very quickly using [fragments](/fleet/configure-a-fleet/).

Reviewer 2: Briefly introduce fragments - assume that people don't know what those are, so they'll be confused at this point. Explain how you wouldn't want to manually set up the same configuration many times and therefor you'll use a reusable configuration called a Fragment. possibly with a glossary item on it instead of the link?

You'll start by configuring one machine and creating a fragment based on that machine's configuration.
Then, you'll add the fragment to each of your other machines.

> This way, if you need to update the config in the future, you just update the fragment and the change is pushed to all the machines at once.

Reviewer 2: "This way" is not enought context to lead to that conclusion:
```suggestion
Because all machines use the same fragment, this also means that if you need to update the config in the future, you can just update teh frament and all machines will automatically get the update.
```
The word pushed is also not entirely accurate. It's not pushed out. I think viam-server checks for new configuration updates ever few seconds and then get them. So it's not pushed, more pulled. I know it's used as a figure of speech but worth rephrasing in this case to avoid confusion

   SSH to your board and run the following command:

   ```sh{class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
   ls /dev/serial/by-id
   ```

   This should output a list of one or more USB devices attached to your board, for example `usb-1a86_USB_Serial-if00-port0`.
   If the air quality sensor is the only device plugged into your board, you can be confident that the only device listed is the correct one.
   If you have multiple devices plugged into different USB ports, you may need to choose one path and test it, or unplug something, to figure out which path to use.

   Now that you have found the identifier, put the full path to the device into your config, for example:

   ```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
   {
     "usb_interface": "/dev/serial/by-id/usb-1a86_USB_Serial-if00-port0"
   }
   ```

7. Save the config.
   Your machine config should now resemble the following:

   {{<imgproc src="/tutorials/air-quality-fleet/configured-sensor.png" resize="x1100" declaredimensions=true alt="Configure tab showing PM sensor and the sensor module configured." style="max-width:600px" >}}

> #### Configure data capture and sync

Reviewer 2: I think here you'll want to first explain that you need to save the readings for your customers and that the data service allows you to do that, etc. I think we can provide some additional info to make all this clearer.

Reviewer 2: I think this comment was for the configure data capture and sync section. Unsure how it ended up here

Reviewer 2: oh odd, now it does line up correctly - well, either way, this still needs doing and then I think let's change the headers so they show up on the TOC
```suggestion
### Configure data capture and sync
```

Reviewer 2: ^ still needs doing

Author: The original paragraph was:
> Now it's time to enable [data capture](/data/capture/) and [cloud sync](/data/cloud-sync/) so that data from your air quality sensor will be first stored on the machine and then pushed up to the cloud where you can access all the data from your sensors remotely.

I previously added two sentences to this--please let me know what you'd like changed further. Seems you marked this convo as resolved so I'm not sure if you're still saying it needs doing or not lmk!

4. Toggle **Syncing** to the on position.
   Set the sync interval to `0.05` minutes so that data syncs to the cloud every 3 seconds.
   You can change the interval if you like, just don't make it too long or you will have to wait a long time before you see your data!
5. Let's add a tag to all your data so that you can query data from all your air quality sensors more easily in later steps.
   In the **Tags** field, type `air-quality` and click **+ Tag: air-quality** when it appears to create a new tag.
   This tag will now automatically be applied to all data collected by this data manager.
6. Now the data management service is available to any components on your machine, and you can set up data capture on the sensor:
7. On your **PM_sensor** card, click **Add method**.
8. From the **Type** dropdown, select **Readings**.
9. Set the **Frequency** to `0.1` readings per second.
   This will capture air quality data once every ten seconds.
   It is useful to capture data frequently for testing purposes, but you can always change this frequency later since you probably don't need to capture data this frequently all day forever.
10. Save the config.

### Create a fragment

> Whilst you clicked around the builder UI configuring your machine, the Viam app generated a JSON configuration file with all your parameters.

Reviewer 2: sounds fun - but a bit too colloquial maybe?
```suggestion
While you configured your machine with the builder UI, the Viam app generated a JSON configuration file with all your parameters.
```

This is the file that tells `viam-server` what resources are available to it and how everything is connected.
Click **JSON** in the upper-left corner of the **CONFIGURE** tab to view the generated JSON file.
You can manually edit this file instead of using the builder UI if you are familiar with JSON.

In any case, now that the JSON is generated, you are ready to create a {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="fragment" text="fragment" >}}:

1. Select and copy the entire contents of the JSON config.
2. Navigate to the **FLEET** page and click [**Fragments**](https://app.viam.com/fragments) at the bottom of the left nav.
3. Type in a name for your fragment, such as `air-sensing-machine` and click **Add fragment**.
4. Replace the empty curly braces `{}` with the config you copied from your machine.

> 5. Because the [Viam Agent](/fleet/provision/) config auto-populates into every machine's config, and configuring the agent using a fragment isn't supported, you do not need to include it in the fragment.

Reviewer 2: Oh interesting. We should add that to the fragments page

Reviewer 2: I think we need to explain that is must be removed, it's not intuitive
```suggestion
5. Because the [Viam Agent](/fleet/provision/) config auto-populates into every machine's config, and configuring the agent using a fragment isn't supported, you must remove it before saving the fragment.
```

1.  Open your [**DATA** page](https://app.viam.com/data).
2.  Click the **Sensors** tab within the data page.
3.  If you have sensor data coming from machines unrelated to this project, use the filters on the left side of the page to view data from only your air quality sensors.
    Click the **Tags** dropdown and select the `air-quality` tag you applied to your data.
    You can also use these filters to show the data from one of your air quality sensors at a time by typing a machine name into the **Machine name** box and clicking **Apply** in the lower-left corner.

    {{<imgproc src="/tutorials/air-quality-fleet/synced-data.png" resize="x1100" declaredimensions=true alt="The sensor readings that have synced to the DATA page." style="max-width:600px" >}}

Once you've confirmed that data is being collected and synced correctly, you're ready to start building a dashboard to display the data.
If you'd like to graph your data using a Grafana dashboard, try our [Visualize Data with Grafana tutorial](/tutorials/services/visualize-data-grafana/).
If you'd like to create your own customizable dashboard using the Viam TypeScript, continue with this tutorial.

> ## Code your custom TypeScript dashboard

Reviewer 2: So here I'd like you to view this from the business's perspective "creating an overview of all your customers"
You can also allow customers to view their own data. That's where the permissions and things like that become interesting

Reviewer 2: I believe the way you set this up the business could input their access credentials and see all machines across all locations AND the clients could input their location credentials and see their own sensors on the dashboard. I think that's really cool and you can work that into the story I think

The [Viam TypeScript SDK](https://ts.viam.dev/) allows you to build custom web interfaces to interact with your machines.
For this project, you'll use it to build a page that displays your air quality sensor data.

> You'll host the website locally on your Linux or MacOS computer, and view the interface in a web browser on that computer.

Reviewer 2: I think the typescript SDK should be supported on all platforms? Do you know it's not?

Author: Ah you're right!

     background-color: orange;
   }

   .unhealthy {
     background-color: red;
   }

   .very-unhealthy {
     background-color: violet;
   }

   .hazardous {
     color: white;
     background-color: purple;
   }

   #main {
     max-width:600px;
     padding:10px 30px 10px;
   }
   ```

   Feel free to adjust any of the colors, margins, fonts, and other specifications in <file>style.css</file> based on your preferences.

## Run the code

1. In a command prompt terminal, navigate to your <file>aqi-dashboard</file> directory.
   Run the following command to start up your air quality dashboard:

   ```sh {id="terminal-prompt" class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
   npm start
   ```

   {{<imgproc src="/tutorials/air-quality-fleet/terminal-url.png" resize="x900" declaredimensions=true alt="Terminal window with the command 'npm start' run inside the aqi-dashboard folder. The output says 'start' and then 'esbuild' followed by the esbuild string from the package.json file you configured. Then there's 'Local:' followed by a URL and 'Network:' follwed by a different URL." style="max-width:700px" >}}

1. The terminal should output a line such as `Local:  http://127.0.0.1:8000/`.

>    Copy the URL the terminal displays and paste it into the address bar in your web browser.

Author: ```suggestion
   Copy the URL the terminal displays and paste it into the address bar in your web browser.
   
   {{% alert title="Tip" color="tip" %}}
To view the dashboard from the browser of a different device on the same network, you can do so using the `Network:` URL.
{{% /alert %}}

```

## Requirements

You can complete this tutorial using any number of air quality sensing machines.

For each machine, you will need the following hardware:

- [SDS011 Nova PM sensor](https://www.amazon.com/SDS011-Quality-Detection-Conditioning-Monitor/dp/B07FSDMRR5)
  - If you choose to use a different air quality sensor, you may need to [create your own module](/registry/create/) implementing the [sensor API](/components/sensor/#api) for your specific hardware.
- A single-board computer (SBC) [capable of running `viam-server`](https://docs.viam.com/get-started/installation/)
- An appropriate power supply

In addition to `viam-server`, this tutorial uses the following software:

- [`sds0011` sensor module](https://github.com/zaporter/viam-sds011)
- The [Viam TypeScript SDK](https://ts.viam.dev/)

## Decide how you will organize your fleet

Before you start connecting your devices to the Viam app, you'll need to decide how you want to group your devices.

> In the Viam app, {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="machine" text="machines" >}} are grouped into [_locations_](/fleet/locations/), and locations are grouped into [_organizations_](/fleet/organizations/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the Viam app, {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="machine" text="machines" >}} are grouped into _locations_, and locations are grouped into _organizations_.
```

Each location can represent either a physical location or some other conceptual grouping.
An organization is the highest level grouping, and often contains all the locations (and machines) of an entire company.
These groupings allow you to manage permissions; you can grant a user access to an individual machine, to all the machines in a location, or to everything in an entire organization.
You choose how to group your machines.

{{<imgproc class="aligncenter" src="/fleet/fleet.svg" declaredimensions=true alt="Tree diagram with three locations that belong to one organization. One location contains sub-location A containing two machines and sub-location B containing one machine. Each of the two other locations contains machines directly with no sub-locations." >}}

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

For more information, see [Fleet Management](/fleet/).

```

No matter how many sensing machines you use, you can configure them efficiently by using a reusable configuration block called a _{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="fragment" text="fragment" >}}_.
Fragments are a way to share and manage identical machine configurations across multiple machines.
Instead of going through all the configuration steps for each machine, you'll start by configuring just one machine and create a fragment based on that machine's configuration.
Then, you'll add the fragment to each of your machines.
With all your machines configured using the same fragment, if you need to update the config in the future, you can just update the fragment and all machines will automatically get the update.

{{< alert title="Note" color="note" >}}
If this was a real company, adding the fragment to each individual machine would quickly become tiring.
We're showing you how to do this manually as a learning device.
Once you understand how to configure machines and use fragments, you can use [Provisioning](/fleet/provision/) to automatically set up your devices.
{{< /alert >}}

> ### Configure your first machine
> 
> #### Configure the sensor

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Configure your first machine

### Configure the sensor
```

Author: This is all within the H2 heading "Configure your air quality sensors," so I don't think these should be bumped out? Should I change the H2 heading to "Configure your fleet" instead of "Configure your air quality sensors"?

Reviewer 2: No let's leave as is

    orgID,
    BSONQueryForData,
  );

  // Instantiate the HTML block that will be returned
  // once everything is appended to it
  let htmlblock: HTMLElement = document.createElement("div");

  // Display the relevant data from each machine to the dashboard
  for (const mach of machineIDs) {
    let insideDiv: HTMLElement = document.createElement("div");
    let avgPM: number = await getLastFewAv(thedata, mach._id);
    // Color-code the dashboard based on air quality category
    let level: string = "blue";
    switch (true) {
      case avgPM < 12.1: {
        level = "good";
        break;
      }
      case avgPM < 35.5: {
        level = "moderate";
        break;
      }
      case avgPM < 55.5: {
        level = "unhealthy-sensitive";
        break;
      }
      case avgPM < 150.5: {
        level = "unhealthy";
        break;
      }
      case avgPM < 250.5: {
        level = "very-unhealthy";
        break;
      }
      case avgPM >= 250.5: {
        level = "hazardous";
        break;
      }
    }
    // Create the HTML output for this machine
    insideDiv.className = "inner-div " + level;
    insideDiv.innerHTML =

>       "<p>" +
>       mach._id +
>       ": " +
>       avgPM.toFixed(2).toString() +
>       " &mu;g/m<sup>3</sup></p>";
>     htmlblock.appendChild(insideDiv);
>   }
> 
>   // Output a block of HTML with color-coded boxes for each machine
>   return document.getElementById("insert-readings").replaceWith(htmlblock);
> }
> 
> // Get the average of the last five readings from a given sensor
> async function getLastFewAv(alltheData: any[], machineID: string) {
>   // Get just the data from this machine
>   let thedata = new Array();
>   for (const entry of alltheData) {
>     if (entry.robot_id == machineID) {
>       thedata.push({
>         PM25: entry.data.readings["pm_2.5"],
>         time: entry.time_received,
>       });
>     }
>   }
> 
>   // Sort the air quality data from this machine
>   // by timestamp
>   thedata = thedata.sort(function (a, b) {
>     let x = a.time.toString();
>     let y = b.time.toString();
>     if (x < y) {
>       return -1;
>     }
>     if (x > y) {
>       return 1;
>     }
>     return 0;
>   });
> 
>   // Add up the last 5 readings collected.
>   // If there are fewer than 5 readings, add all of them.
>   let x = 5; // The number of readings to average over
>   if (x > thedata.length) {
>     x = thedata.length;
>   }
>   let total = 0;
>   for (let i = 1; i <= x; i++) {
>     const reading: number = thedata[thedata.length - i].PM25;
>     total += reading;
>   }
>   // Return the average of the last few readings
>   return total / x;
> }
> 
> main().catch((error) => {
>   console.error("encountered an error:", error);
> });
> ```
> 
> {{% /expand%}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The full code is available for reference [on GitHub](https://github.com/viam-labs/air-quality-fleet/blob/main/main.ts).
```

### Style your dashboard

You have completed the main TypeScript file that gathers and sorts the data.
Now, you'll create a page to display the data.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

{{% alert title="Tip" color="tip" %}}
If instead of following along step-by-step you'd like to quickly see all the code, check out the [GitHub repository for this project](https://github.com/viam-labs/air-quality-fleet).
{{% /alert %}}

```

Author: @npentrel Is this what you had in mind? I think it makes more sense to link directly to GH than to link to a heading with a link to GH, but I don't know that this is the best place to have this link at all since it's just halfway through the step-by-step.

Reviewer 2: sounds good. Can simplify though to not assume their intention. They may follow along step by step and get confused and then want to use it as a reference
 ```suggestion

{{% alert title="Tip" color="tip" %}}
The complete code is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/viam-labs/air-quality-fleet) as a reference.
{{% /alert %}}

```

images: ["/tutorials/air-quality-fleet/three-sensor-dash-wide.png"]
imageAlt: "A web dashboard showing PM2.5 readings from two air quality sensors."
tags: ["tutorial"]
authors: ["Jessamy Taylor"]
languages: ["typescript"]
viamresources: ["sensor", "data_manager"]
level: "Intermediate"
date: "2024-04-23"
# updated: ""  # When the tutorial was last entirely checked
cost: 200
# Learning goals:
# 1. The reader can distinguish the concepts of organizations and locations and can select the appropriate setup when creating their own projects for their business.
# 2. The reader can identify when to use fragments and evaluate when it is worth using fragments.
#    The reader can create their own fragments for their projects and knows what to include and exclude from them.
# 3. The reader recognizes how permissions enable the management of data for a business across multiple customers while providing each customer access to their own data.
---

In this tutorial you will use a fleet of devices to collect air quality data from different places and display the most recent readings from each device in a custom viewing dashboard.
By completing this project, you will learn to:

> - Configure a fleet of identical machines

Author: I was hesitant to say this since they don't know what fragments are yet, and might increase cognitive load. But I can see this being helpful to folks who are specifically looking for a tutorial that covers this fragments use case so I guess okay to include?

## Requirements

You can complete this tutorial using any number of air quality sensing machines.

For each machine, you will need the following hardware:

- [SDS011 Nova PM sensor](https://www.amazon.com/SDS011-Quality-Detection-Conditioning-Monitor/dp/B07FSDMRR5)
  - If you choose to use a different air quality sensor, you may need to [create your own module](/registry/create/) implementing the [sensor API](/components/sensor/#api) for your specific hardware.
- A single-board computer (SBC) [capable of running `viam-server`](https://docs.viam.com/get-started/installation/)
- An appropriate power supply

In addition to `viam-server`, this tutorial uses the following software:

- [`sds0011` sensor module](https://github.com/zaporter/viam-sds011)
- The [Viam TypeScript SDK](https://ts.viam.dev/)

## Decide how you will organize your fleet

Before you start connecting your devices to the Viam app, you'll need to decide how you want to group your devices.

> In the Viam app, {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="machine" text="machines" >}} are grouped into [_locations_](/fleet/locations/), and locations are grouped into [_organizations_](/fleet/organizations/).

Reviewer 2: Maybe at the end of the section then? That way they have it as reference if they still have questions but they don't immediately go there before even getting the info we have here?

> In the Viam app, {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="machine" text="machines" >}} are grouped into [_locations_](/fleet/locations/), and locations are grouped into [_organizations_](/fleet/organizations/).

Author: Oops yes okay applying your suggestions!

   Rename it so you can use it for Antonia's machines:

   Click the pencil icon next to the location name, change it to `Antonia's Home`, then click **Save**.

1. Now, create a separate location for RobotsRUs:

   On the left side of the **FLEET** page, find the **New location** interface.
   Type in `RobotsRUs` and click **Add**.

1. Add sub-locations to the RobotsRUs location to group the machines at each of their offices:

   Add a new location called `Oregon Office` using the same **New location** interface.
   Then, find the **New parent location** dropdown on the Oregon Office page.
   Select **RobotsRUs** and click **Change**.

   Repeat to add the New York office: Add a new location called `New York Office`, then change its parent location to **RobotsRUs**.

   {{<imgproc class="aligncenter" src="/tutorials/air-quality-fleet/locations-done.png" resize="x900" declaredimensions=true alt="The New York Office fleet page. The left Locations navigation panel lists Antonia's Home and RobotsRUs, with New York Office and Oregon Office nested inside RobotsRUs." >}}

   In the next section, you'll add machines to the locations.

> ## Connect your machines to the Viam app

Author: Hmm I'm thinking about what some of these could start with and I think it's hard to accurately sum up the step without adding verbosity.
It is hand-holdy, and not what someone would do if they were using provisioning, but the section above about setting up the fleet is equally hand-holdy so I think it's consistent?

> With your organizational structure in place, let's add some machines:

Author: ```suggestion
With your organizational structure in place, add your machines:
```

1. Connect the single-board computer you'll be shipping to Antonia to power.
   If the computer does not already have a Viam-compatible operating system installed, follow the [Prepare your board steps in the Installation Guide](/get-started/installation/#prepare-your-board) to install a compatible operating system.
   You _do not_ need to follow the "Install `viam-server`" section; you will do that in the next step!

1. Enable serial communication so that the SBC can communicate with the air quality sensor.
   For example, if you are using a Raspberry Pi, SSH to it and [enable serial communication in `raspi-config`](/get-started/installation/prepare/rpi-setup/#enable-communication-protocols).

> 1. Click **Antonia's Home** in the left navigation menu to navigate to that location's page.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Add a new machine:

   Click **Antonia's Home** in the left navigation menu to navigate to that location's page.
```

Reviewer 2: Will have a think

Reviewer 2: let's leave as is - thanks for your patience

Author: Okay! :)

   ```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
   {
     "usb_interface": "<REPLACE WITH THE PATH YOU IDENTIFY>"
   }
   ```

6. <a name="usb-path"></a>Now you need to figure out which port your sensor is connected to on your board.
   SSH to your board and run the following command:

   ```sh{class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
   ls /dev/serial/by-id
   ```

   This should output a list of one or more USB devices attached to your board, for example `usb-1a86_USB_Serial-if00-port0`.
   If the air quality sensor is the only device plugged into your board, you can be confident that the only device listed is the correct one.
   If you have multiple devices plugged into different USB ports, you may need to choose one path and test it, or unplug something, to figure out which path to use.

   Now that you have found the identifier, put the full path to the device into your config, for example:

   ```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
   {
     "usb_interface": "/dev/serial/by-id/usb-1a86_USB_Serial-if00-port0"
   }
   ```

7. Save the config.
   Your machine config should now resemble the following:

>    {{<imgproc src="/tutorials/air-quality-fleet/configured-sensor.png" resize="x1100" declaredimensions=true alt="Configure tab showing PM sensor and the sensor module configured." style="max-width:600px" >}}

Author: oooh good tip

You can manually edit this file instead of using the builder UI if you are familiar with JSON.

In any case, now that the JSON is generated, you are ready to create a {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="fragment" text="fragment" >}}:

1. Select and copy the entire contents of the JSON config.
2. Navigate to the **FLEET** page and click [**Fragments**](https://app.viam.com/fragments) at the bottom of the left nav.
3. Type in a name for your fragment, such as `air-sensing-machine` and click **Add fragment**.
4. Replace the empty curly braces `{}` with the config you copied from your machine.
5. Because the [Viam Agent](/fleet/provision/) config auto-populates into every machine's config, and configuring the agent using a fragment isn't supported, you do not need to include it in the fragment.

   Delete the entire `agent_config` section including the comma just above it:

   {{<imgproc src="/tutorials/air-quality-fleet/delete-agent-config.png" resize="x1100" declaredimensions=true alt="The section of the raw JSON that you should delete: the entire agent section." style="max-width:600px" >}}

6. Click **Save fragment**.

> 7. Now, you can actually delete the entire config from your machine!

Reviewer 2: Just to be on the safe side
```suggestion
7. Now, you can actually delete the entire config from the machine you configured before!
```

Author: ```suggestion
7. Now, you can actually delete the entire config from the machine you configured!
```
I think "before" is redundant with the past tense

The following instructions describe how to set up an API key for one location.

1.  Create another file inside the <file>aqi-dashboard</file> folder and name it <file>main.ts</file>.
    Paste the following code into <file>main.ts</file>:

    ```typescript {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
    // Air quality dashboard

    import * as VIAM from "@viamrobotics/sdk";
    import { BSON } from "bson";

    async function main() {
      const opts: VIAM.ViamClientOptions = {
        credential: {
          type: "api-key",
          // Key with location operator permissions
          // Replace <API-KEY> (including angle brackets)
          payload: "<API-KEY>",
          // Replace <API-KEY-ID> (including angle brackets)
          authEntity: "<API-KEY-ID>",
        },
      };

      const orgID: string = "<ORGANIZATION ID>"; // Replace
      const locationID: string = "<LOCATION ID>"; // Replace

      // <Insert data client and query code here in later steps>

      // <Insert HTML block code here in later steps>
    }

>     // <Insert getLastFewAv function definition here in later steps>

Author: Personally, when following along with, for example, the flutter app tutorial, I have found it to be a better learning experience to do it piece-by-piece so it's more hands-on. I liked the comments Clint used to guide users to do things themselves. I can see it being annoying for someone in a hurry, but if the point is for people to learn, I like it this way. If I copy a whole repo and then have to go look through all of it and try to understand what it's doing, I don't enjoy that process as much as adding functionality myself and having it explained at each step.

    main().catch((error) => {
      console.error("encountered an error:", error);
    });
    ```

> 1.  Now you need to get the API key and the {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="organization" text="organization" >}} and {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="location" text="location" >}} IDs to replace the placeholder strings in the code you just pasted.

Reviewer 2: I think you don't need the tooltips anymore here

   let thedata: any = await myDataClient?.tabularDataByMQL(
     orgID,
     BSONQueryForData,
   );
   ```

1. For this project, your dashboard will display the average of the last five readings from each air sensor.
   You need a function to calculate that average.
   The data returned by the query is not necessarily returned in order, so this function must put the data in order based on timestamps before averaging the last five readings.

   Paste the following code into <file>main.ts</file> after the end of your main function, in place of `// <Insert getLastFewAv function definition here in later steps>`:

   ```typescript {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
   // Get the average of the last few readings from a given sensor
   async function getLastFewAv(alltheData: any[], machineID: string) {
     // Get just the data from this machine
     let thedata = new Array();
     for (const entry of alltheData) {
       if (entry.robot_id == machineID) {
         thedata.push({
           PM25: entry.data.readings["pm_2.5"],
           time: entry.time_received,
         });
       }
     }

     // Sort the air quality data from this machine
     // by timestamp

>      thedata = thedata.sort(function (a, b) {
>        let x = a.time.toString();
>        let y = b.time.toString();
>        if (x < y) {
>          return -1;
>        }
>        if (x > y) {
>          return 1;
>        }
>        return 0;
>      });

Reviewer 2: Would this not accomplish the same thing? Presumably time is already a number? 
```suggestion
     thedata = thedata.sort((a, b) => a.time - b.time);
```
if not maybe
```
     thedata = thedata.sort((a, b) => Date.parse(a.time) - Date.parse(b.time));
```

Author: It's not a number to start with but I think your second suggestion works! Nice! Will apply to full code too

Author: ```suggestion
     thedata = thedata.sort((a, b) => Date.parse(a.time) - Date.parse(b.time));
```

     let insideDiv: HTMLElement = document.createElement("div");
     let avgPM: number = await getLastFewAv(thedata, mach._id);
     // Color-code the dashboard based on air quality category
     let level: string = "blue";
     switch (true) {
       case avgPM < 12.1: {
         level = "good";
         break;
       }
       case avgPM < 35.5: {
         level = "moderate";
         break;
       }
       case avgPM < 55.5: {
         level = "unhealthy-sensitive";
         break;
       }
       case avgPM < 150.5: {
         level = "unhealthy";
         break;
       }
       case avgPM < 250.5: {
         level = "very-unhealthy";
         break;
       }
       case avgPM >= 250.5: {
         level = "hazardous";
         break;
       }
     }
     // Create the HTML output for this machine
     insideDiv.className = "inner-div " + level;
     insideDiv.innerHTML =
       "<p>" +
       mach._id +
       ": " +
       avgPM.toFixed(2).toString() +
       " &mu;g/m<sup>3</sup></p>";
     htmlblock.appendChild(insideDiv);
   }

   // Output a block of HTML with color-coded boxes for each machine
   return document.getElementById("insert-readings").replaceWith(htmlblock);

>    ```

Author: ```suggestion
   ```

## Full tutorial code
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

## Full tutorial code

```

> {{%expand "Click to see the full TypeScript code" %}}

Reviewer 2: this needs to have it's own header and be linked to prominently, so that people don't miss it

Author: Ooh oops I could've sworn I put it in. Doing now!

Reviewer 2: I think add a line here with a link to #full-tutorial-code

  let thedata = new Array();
  for (const entry of alltheData) {
    if (entry.robot_id == machineID) {
      thedata.push({
        PM25: entry.data.readings["pm_2.5"],
        time: entry.time_received,
      });
    }
  }

  // Sort the air quality data from this machine
  // by timestamp
  thedata = thedata.sort(function (a, b) {
    let x = a.time.toString();
    let y = b.time.toString();
    if (x < y) {
      return -1;
    }
    if (x > y) {
      return 1;
    }
    return 0;
  });

  // Add up the last 5 readings collected.
  // If there are fewer than 5 readings, add all of them.
  let x = 5; // The number of readings to average over
  if (x > thedata.length) {
    x = thedata.length;
  }
  let total = 0;
  for (let i = 1; i <= x; i++) {
    const reading: number = thedata[thedata.length - i].PM25;
    total += reading;
  }
  // Return the average of the last few readings
  return total / x;
}

main().catch((error) => {
  console.error("encountered an error:", error);
});
```

{{% /expand%}}

### Style your dashboard

You have completed the main TypeScript file that gathers and sorts the data.
Now, you'll create a page to display the data.

> 1. Create a folder called <file>static</file> inside your <file>aqi-dashboard</file> folder.

Reviewer 2: Consider  whether it would be better to place all these files in a github repo that you then link to, so people don't have to create folders and copy files.

Author: See comment above; I like having people learn by creating the project structure themself but maybe that's just me :eyes:

Reviewer 2: Ok - good to keep as is but I'd like us to add a github repo with the project fully set up as reference. That way if people get confused they can look there

Author: Done!

Reviewer 2: can you add a note here to link to #full-tutorial-code

Author: Okay--do you think I should take out the TS expander above then? It feels odd to me to have the link to the full repo in the middle of the code instead of just the end (or beginning)

Reviewer 2: yes, I think so, can replace with link to that specific file

1. The terminal should output a line such as `Local:  http://127.0.0.1:8000/`.
   Copy the URL the terminal displays and paste it into the address bar in your web browser.
   
   {{% alert title="Tip" color="tip" %}}
To view the dashboard from the browser of a different device on the same network, you can do so using the `Network:` URL.
{{% /alert %}}

   The data may take up to approximately 5 seconds to load, then you should see air quality data from all of your sensors.
   If the dashboard does not appear, right-click the page, select **Inspect**, and check for errors in the console.

   {{<imgproc class="aligncenter" src="/tutorials/air-quality-fleet/three-sensor-dash.png" resize="x900" declaredimensions=true alt="Air quality dashboard in a web browser with PM2.5 readings from three different sensor machines displayed." style="max-width:500px" >}}

   Great work.
   You've learned how to configure a fleet of machines, sync their data to one place, and pull that data into a custom dashboard using TypeScript.

## Next steps

> Now that you can monitor your air quality, you can try to improve it and see if your efforts are effective.
> You might try putting an air filter in your home or office and comparing the air quality data before you start running the filter with air quality after you have run the filter for a while.
> Or, try sealing gaps around doors, and check whether your seal is working by looking at your dashboard.

Reviewer 2: I think this needs to be reframed a bit. How about

```suggestion
Now you can monitor air quality across as many machines as you have.
If you want to improve the air quality in a specific location, you might try putting an air filter in your home or office. Or, you could try sealing gaps around doors, and check whether your seal is working by looking at your dashboard.
With the dashboard, you will be able to see whether the results of your efforts are effective.
You could also improve the dashboard to show your air quality at different time points to have an even better overview.
```

Still keeps the content but I think it fits better

Author: ```suggestion
Now you can monitor air quality across your entire fleet of sensing machines.
	If you want to improve the air quality in a specific location, you might try putting an air filter in your home or office.
	Or, you could try sealing gaps around doors.
	With the dashboard, you will be able to see whether the results of your efforts are effective.
	You could also improve the dashboard to show your air quality at different time points to have an even better overview.
```
Okay sure. Modifying slightly for redundancy reduction and because "as you have" doesn't feel natural to me.

> You could set up a text or email alert when your air quality passes a certain threshold.

Author: I like it. I think "also" can come out though.
```suggestion
As a next step, you could set up a text or email alert when your air quality passes a certain threshold.
```

   Click **View setup instructions**.
   You can find these instructions later if you need them by clicking the part status indicator (which currently reads **Awaiting setup**).

1. Follow the **Set up your machine part** instructions to install `viam-server` on the machine and connect it to the Viam app.
   `viam-server` is the binary that runs on the single-board computer (SBC), providing functionality including sensor data collection and connection to the Viam app.

   The setup page will indicate when the machine is successfully connected.

1. If Antonia has more than one air sensing machine, add a new machine to her location and set it up in the same way.

1. It's time to add some machines to the RobotsRUs location.
   Connect one of the single-board computers you'll send to RobotsRUs' Oregon office to power.
   Click **RobotsRUs** in the locations list.
   Click the **Oregon Office** sub-location to navigate to its page.
1. Add a new machine, naming it `air-sensor1` for example.
1. Click **View setup instructions** and follow the steps on that page, just as you did with Antonia's machines.

> 1. Repeat this process for each machine you're shipping to RobotsRUs' Oregon office, then navigate to the New York Office location and set up those machines.

Reviewer 2: Maybe here we don't add steps but leave it as prose? Maybe that's going a bit into the direction of the feedback we got of holding hands a bit much when it's easy. Maybe this is enough?

```
This is how you set up one machine. If you are following along for the RobotsRUs business from our example, create additional machines in each sublocation, so in the `Oregon Office` location and in the `New York Office` location.
```
